README

Welcome to the wild world of sorting, where you take things...and sort them!

Sorting is an ancient art used since the beginning of time, 1951. With one of the
most earliest sorting algorithms the bubble sort.

Bubble sorting a simple yet pretty inefecient sorting method but
really fun to bare witness to.

Let's take a look at these numbers to show how bubble sorting works 8,7,3,6,9.

The sorting begins is an ineffecient, simple and repeititve sorting method that starts
with the first number and compares it to the number next to it. If the second number is
lower then the first number the numbers switch, 7,8,3,6,9. Then we compare our initial first
number with the next and swicht them if the next number is lower 7,3,8,6,9 and we do this till that
first initial number finds its place and then we repeat again with the first number in the line until
our numbers are comletely sorted.

Next there is the quicksort algorithm one of the more effiecnet forms of soring. This method
takes numbers and sort them by breaking them down based off one of the numbers of your choosing.
Let's use these numbers again and get started 8,7,3,6,9.

For the sake of simplicity we are going to break off 8 the first number and use that as our pivot(our comaparison number)
From there we compare the rest of the numbers to the pivot and sort them left or right based on
if they are higher or lower. We start from seven as we are going left to right.7 3,6| 8|9.Great!
We have so far sorted half of our numbers. Next we create another pivot in our groupings using the 1st number.
In this case we will use 7 and normally we would use 9 for the second grouping but you cant really sort just one number.
Now going left to right we sort the next group into 3,6|7|8|9. Now we repeat this process for the next line and we
finally have our sorted numbers 3|6|7|8|9|

Next we have insertion. Insertion kinda works like bubble sort where we compare the first number
to the second but the key difference being once the first numbers are compared they are put into
their own group. With 8,7,3,6,9, 8 is compared to 7 and they switch and become linked, |7,8|. Then we compare
3 to 8 and then 3 to 7 and they become linked 3|7|8. Then 6 compares to each number in our newly created
list and it becomes 3|6|7|8, where we finally compare the list to our last number 9 and complete the sorting.
